README.md, before:

# OpenClaw Plugin for MemoryRelay AI

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

Long-term memory plugin for OpenClaw agents using [MemoryRelay API](https://api.memoryrelay.net).

## Features

- 🧠 **Semantic Search** — Natural language memory retrieval with vector embeddings
- 🔄 **Auto-Recall** — Automatically inject relevant memories into agent context
- 📝 **Auto-Capture** — Intelligently detect and store important information
- 🤖 **Multi-Agent** — Isolated memory namespaces per agent
- 🛠️ **CLI Tools** — Manage memories via `openclaw memoryrelay` commands
- 🔌 **Tool Integration** — Three memory tools for AI agents

## Installation

```bash
openclaw plugins install @memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai
```

Or via npm:

```bash
npm install -g @memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Get API Key

Sign up at [memoryrelay.io](https://memoryrelay.io) or use the public demo API.

### 2. Configure

Add to your `~/.openclaw/openclaw.json`:

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "slots": {
      "memory": "plugin-memoryrelay-ai"
    },
    "entries": {
      "plugin-memoryrelay-ai": {
        "enabled": true,
        "config": {
          "apiKey": "mem_prod_...",
          "agentId": "my-agent",
          "apiUrl": "https://api.memoryrelay.net",
          "autoRecall": true,
          "autoCapture": false
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### 3. Restart Gateway

```bash
openclaw gateway restart
```

### 4. Test Connection

```bash
openclaw memoryrelay status
```

## Usage

### AI Agent Tools

The plugin provides three tools your AI agent can use:

#### `memory_store`

Store a new memory with optional metadata.

> **Note**: The `agent_id` parameter is automatically injected from your config. You don't need to include it.

**Parameters:**
- `content` (string, required) - Memory content (1-50,000 characters)
- `metadata` (object, optional) - Key-value metadata (max 10KB when serialized)

**Example:**
```typescript
memory_store({
  content: "User prefers concise bullet-point responses",
  metadata: { category: "preferences", importance: "high" }
})
```

**Returns:** Memory object with `id`, `content`, `agent_id`, `metadata`, `created_at`, `updated_at`

**Rate Limit**: 30 requests per minute

#### `memory_recall`

Search memories using semantic similarity.

**Parameters:**
- `query` (string, required) - Natural language search query
- `limit` (number, optional, default: 10) - Maximum results (1-50)
- `threshold` (number, optional, default: 0.5) - Minimum similarity score (0-1)

**Example:**
```typescript
memory_recall({
  query: "user communication preferences",
  limit: 5,
  threshold: 0.7
})
```

**Returns:** Array of search results with `memory` object and `score` (0-1):
```json
{
  "results": [
    {
      "memory": {
        "id": "550e8400-...",
        "content": "User prefers concise bullet-point responses",
        "metadata": { "category": "preferences" },
        "created_at": 1707649200
      },
      "score": 0.89
    }
  ]
}
```

#### `memory_forget`

Delete a memory by ID or search query.

**Parameters:**
- `memoryId` (string, optional) - Memory UUID to delete
- `query` (string, optional) - Search query (shows candidates if multiple matches)

**Examples:**
```typescript
// By ID
memory_forget({ memoryId: "550e8400-..." })

// By query (interactive if multiple matches)
memory_forget({ query: "outdated preference" })
```

**Returns:** Success confirmation

### CLI Commands

```bash
# Check status
openclaw memoryrelay status

# List recent memories
openclaw memoryrelay list --limit 10

# Search memories
openclaw memoryrelay search "API configuration"
```

### Auto-Recall

When `autoRecall: true`, relevant memories are automatically injected before each agent turn:

```xml
<relevant-memories>
The following memories from MemoryRelay may be relevant:
- User prefers concise responses
- Project uses TypeScript with strict mode
- ...
</relevant-memories>
```

**Config:**
- `recallLimit`: Max memories (default: 5)
- `recallThreshold`: Min similarity score (default: 0.3)

### Auto-Capture

When `autoCapture: true`, the plugin detects and stores important information automatically.

**Patterns detected:**
- "remember that..."
- "my name/email/phone is..."
- "important: ..."
- API keys, SSH configs, preferences

**Note:** Disabled by default for privacy.

## Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `apiKey` | string | ✅ | - | MemoryRelay API key |
| `agentId` | string | ✅ | - | Unique agent identifier |
| `apiUrl` | string | No | `api.memoryrelay.net` | API endpoint |
| `autoRecall` | boolean | No | `true` | Auto-inject memories |
| `autoCapture` | boolean | No | `false` | Auto-store information |
| `recallLimit` | number | No | `5` | Max memories to inject |
| `recallThreshold` | number | No | `0.3` | Similarity threshold (0-1) |

### Environment Variables

Alternatively, use environment variables:

```bash
export MEMORYRELAY_API_KEY="mem_prod_..."
export MEMORYRELAY_AGENT_ID="my-agent"
```

Then reference in config:
```json
{
  "apiKey": "${MEMORYRELAY_API_KEY}",
  "agentId": "${MEMORYRELAY_AGENT_ID}"
}
```

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────┐
│   OpenClaw Agent    │
│   (Your AI)         │
└──────────┬──────────┘
           │
           │ Plugin API
           ↓
┌─────────────────────┐
│ @memoryrelay/       │
│ openclaw-plugin     │
│ - Tools             │
│ - CLI               │
│ - Lifecycle Hooks   │
└──────────┬──────────┘
           │
           │ HTTPS REST
           ↓
┌─────────────────────┐
│ MemoryRelay API     │
│ api.memoryrelay.net │
└─────────────────────┘
```

## API

The plugin includes a TypeScript client for MemoryRelay API:

```typescript
class MemoryRelayClient {
  async store(content: string, metadata?: Record<string, string>): Promise<Memory>
  async search(query: string, limit?: number, threshold?: number): Promise<SearchResult[]>
  async list(limit?: number, offset?: number): Promise<Memory[]>
  async get(id: string): Promise<Memory>
  async delete(id: string): Promise<void>
  async health(): Promise<{ status: string }>
}
```

## Examples

### Basic Usage

```javascript
// Agent conversation:
// User: "Remember that I prefer TypeScript over JavaScript"
// Agent uses: memory_store({ content: "User prefers TypeScript over JavaScript" })

// Later:
// User: "What language should we use?"
// Agent uses: memory_recall({ query: "programming language preference" })
// → Finds previous preference and suggests TypeScript
```

### CLI Workflow

```bash
# Store memory
openclaw memoryrelay store "Project uses Kubernetes on AWS EKS"

# Search later
openclaw memoryrelay search "kubernetes setup"
# → Returns relevant infrastructure memories

# List all
openclaw memoryrelay list --limit 20

# Delete old memory
openclaw memoryrelay forget --id abc123
```

## Troubleshooting

### Plugin Not Loading

```bash
# Check plugin status
openclaw plugins list | grep memoryrelay

# View config validation
openclaw doctor

# Check logs
journalctl -u openclaw-gateway -f
```

### Connection Failed

```bash
# Test API directly
curl https://api.memoryrelay.net/v1/health

# Check API key
openclaw memoryrelay status
```

### No Memories Returned

- Check `recallThreshold` (lower = more results)
- Verify `agentId` matches your API agent
- Try broader search queries

## Security

- API keys stored in `openclaw.json` (not committed to git)
- Supports environment variable substitution
- Auto-capture disabled by default (privacy)
- No hardcoded credentials

**Best Practices:**
- Use environment variables in production
- Never commit `openclaw.json` with real keys
- Rotate API keys regularly
- Review auto-captured memories periodically

## Development

### File Structure

```
openclaw-plugin/
├── index.ts                  # Plugin implementation
├── openclaw.plugin.json      # Plugin manifest
├── package.json              # NPM metadata
├── LICENSE                   # MIT license
└── README.md                 # This file
```

### Testing

```bash
# Install locally
openclaw plugins install --link .

# Test tools
# (via agent conversation or CLI)

# View logs
tail -f ~/.openclaw/logs/gateway.log
```

## Related Projects

- **MemoryRelay API** — REST API backend (FastAPI + PostgreSQL)
- **MCP Server** — [`memoryrelay-mcp-server`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/memoryrelay-mcp-server) for Claude Desktop
- **Python SDK** — `memoryrelay` on PyPI (coming soon)

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests (if applicable)
4. Update documentation
5. Submit a pull request

## Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/memoryrelay/openclaw-plugin/issues)
- **Docs**: [memoryrelay.io](https://memoryrelay.io)
- **Discord**: [OpenClaw Community](https://discord.gg/clawd)

## License

MIT © 2026 MemoryRelay

---

## Changelog

### v0.2.1 (2026-02-13)

**Bug Fix:**
- Made `apiKey` and `agentId` optional in config schema
- Allows installation without pre-configuring credentials
- Plugin auto-detects agentId and supports MEMORYRELAY_API_KEY env var
- Fixes "must have required property" errors during installation

### v0.2.0 (2026-02-13) - BREAKING CHANGE

**Package Renamed to Fix Warnings:**
- Old: `@memoryrelay/openclaw-plugin`
- New: `@memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai`
- Plugin ID remains: `plugin-memoryrelay-ai`
- **Why**: Package name must match plugin ID to avoid config warnings
- **Impact**: No code changes, just package name alignment

**Migration**:
```bash
# Uninstall old package
openclaw plugins uninstall @memoryrelay/openclaw-plugin
# Install new package
openclaw plugins install @memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai
```

### v0.1.2 (2026-02-13)

**Bug Fix:**
- Fixed installation directory mismatch by adding `openclaw.id` to package.json
- Plugin now correctly installs to `plugin-memoryrelay-ai` directory
- Resolves "plugin not found" error during `openclaw plugins install`

### v0.1.1 (2026-02-13)

**Breaking Changes:**
- Plugin ID changed: `memory-memoryrelay` → `plugin-memoryrelay-ai`
- Update your `openclaw.json` to use new ID in `plugins.slots.memory` and `plugins.entries`

**Documentation Improvements:**
- ✅ Added agent_id auto-injection documentation
- ✅ Added size limits (content 1-50K chars, metadata 10KB)
- ✅ Added rate limit info (30 req/min)
- ✅ Enhanced tool documentation with return formats
- ✅ Added response format examples for memory_recall

**Migration Guide:**
```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "slots": {
      "memory": "plugin-memoryrelay-ai"  // Changed
    },
    "entries": {
      "plugin-memoryrelay-ai": {  // Changed
        "enabled": true,
        "config": { ... }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### v0.1.0 (2026-02-12)

- Initial release
- Three tools: memory_store, memory_recall, memory_forget
- Auto-recall and auto-capture features
- CLI commands
- Production deployment on 3 agents

---

**Homepage**: https://memoryrelay.io  
**API**: https://api.memoryrelay.net  
**Source**: https://github.com/memoryrelay/openclaw-plugin

Commit message:

v0.2.2: CRITICAL - Fix tool registration API
🚨 BREAKING FIX: Tools were not registering due to wrong API

**Problem:**
- Used inputSchema + handler (wrong API)
- OpenClaw plugin API uses parameters + execute
- Tools failed to register, causing 'unavailable' status
- Memory operations returned 'schema must be object or boolean' error

**Solution:**
- Changed inputSchema → parameters (correct OpenClaw API)
- Changed handler → execute with _id parameter
- Tools now register and work correctly

**Impact:**
- Plugin now shows as 'available' in openclaw status
- memory_store, memory_recall, memory_forget all functional
- This is the working version users need

README.md, after:

# OpenClaw Plugin for MemoryRelay AI

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

Long-term memory plugin for OpenClaw agents using [MemoryRelay API](https://api.memoryrelay.net).

## Features

- 🧠 **Semantic Search** — Natural language memory retrieval with vector embeddings
- 🔄 **Auto-Recall** — Automatically inject relevant memories into agent context
- 📝 **Auto-Capture** — Intelligently detect and store important information
- 🤖 **Multi-Agent** — Isolated memory namespaces per agent
- 🛠️ **CLI Tools** — Manage memories via `openclaw memoryrelay` commands
- 🔌 **Tool Integration** — Three memory tools for AI agents

## Installation

```bash
openclaw plugins install @memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai
```

Or via npm:

```bash
npm install -g @memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Get API Key

Sign up at [memoryrelay.io](https://memoryrelay.io) or use the public demo API.

### 2. Configure

Add to your `~/.openclaw/openclaw.json`:

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "slots": {
      "memory": "plugin-memoryrelay-ai"
    },
    "entries": {
      "plugin-memoryrelay-ai": {
        "enabled": true,
        "config": {
          "apiKey": "mem_prod_...",
          "agentId": "my-agent",
          "apiUrl": "https://api.memoryrelay.net",
          "autoRecall": true,
          "autoCapture": false
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### 3. Restart Gateway

```bash
openclaw gateway restart
```

### 4. Test Connection

```bash
openclaw memoryrelay status
```

## Usage

### AI Agent Tools

The plugin provides three tools your AI agent can use:

#### `memory_store`

Store a new memory with optional metadata.

> **Note**: The `agent_id` parameter is automatically injected from your config. You don't need to include it.

**Parameters:**
- `content` (string, required) - Memory content (1-50,000 characters)
- `metadata` (object, optional) - Key-value metadata (max 10KB when serialized)

**Example:**
```typescript
memory_store({
  content: "User prefers concise bullet-point responses",
  metadata: { category: "preferences", importance: "high" }
})
```

**Returns:** Memory object with `id`, `content`, `agent_id`, `metadata`, `created_at`, `updated_at`

**Rate Limit**: 30 requests per minute

#### `memory_recall`

Search memories using semantic similarity.

**Parameters:**
- `query` (string, required) - Natural language search query
- `limit` (number, optional, default: 10) - Maximum results (1-50)
- `threshold` (number, optional, default: 0.5) - Minimum similarity score (0-1)

**Example:**
```typescript
memory_recall({
  query: "user communication preferences",
  limit: 5,
  threshold: 0.7
})
```

**Returns:** Array of search results with `memory` object and `score` (0-1):
```json
{
  "results": [
    {
      "memory": {
        "id": "550e8400-...",
        "content": "User prefers concise bullet-point responses",
        "metadata": { "category": "preferences" },
        "created_at": 1707649200
      },
      "score": 0.89
    }
  ]
}
```

#### `memory_forget`

Delete a memory by ID or search query.

**Parameters:**
- `memoryId` (string, optional) - Memory UUID to delete
- `query` (string, optional) - Search query (shows candidates if multiple matches)

**Examples:**
```typescript
// By ID
memory_forget({ memoryId: "550e8400-..." })

// By query (interactive if multiple matches)
memory_forget({ query: "outdated preference" })
```

**Returns:** Success confirmation

### CLI Commands

```bash
# Check status
openclaw memoryrelay status

# List recent memories
openclaw memoryrelay list --limit 10

# Search memories
openclaw memoryrelay search "API configuration"
```

### Auto-Recall

When `autoRecall: true`, relevant memories are automatically injected before each agent turn:

```xml
<relevant-memories>
The following memories from MemoryRelay may be relevant:
- User prefers concise responses
- Project uses TypeScript with strict mode
- ...
</relevant-memories>
```

**Config:**
- `recallLimit`: Max memories (default: 5)
- `recallThreshold`: Min similarity score (default: 0.3)

### Auto-Capture

When `autoCapture: true`, the plugin detects and stores important information automatically.

**Patterns detected:**
- "remember that..."
- "my name/email/phone is..."
- "important: ..."
- API keys, SSH configs, preferences

**Note:** Disabled by default for privacy.

## Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `apiKey` | string | ✅ | - | MemoryRelay API key |
| `agentId` | string | ✅ | - | Unique agent identifier |
| `apiUrl` | string | No | `api.memoryrelay.net` | API endpoint |
| `autoRecall` | boolean | No | `true` | Auto-inject memories |
| `autoCapture` | boolean | No | `false` | Auto-store information |
| `recallLimit` | number | No | `5` | Max memories to inject |
| `recallThreshold` | number | No | `0.3` | Similarity threshold (0-1) |

### Environment Variables

Alternatively, use environment variables:

```bash
export MEMORYRELAY_API_KEY="mem_prod_..."
export MEMORYRELAY_AGENT_ID="my-agent"
```

Then reference in config:
```json
{
  "apiKey": "${MEMORYRELAY_API_KEY}",
  "agentId": "${MEMORYRELAY_AGENT_ID}"
}
```

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────┐
│   OpenClaw Agent    │
│   (Your AI)         │
└──────────┬──────────┘
           │
           │ Plugin API
           ↓
┌─────────────────────┐
│ @memoryrelay/       │
│ openclaw-plugin     │
│ - Tools             │
│ - CLI               │
│ - Lifecycle Hooks   │
└──────────┬──────────┘
           │
           │ HTTPS REST
           ↓
┌─────────────────────┐
│ MemoryRelay API     │
│ api.memoryrelay.net │
└─────────────────────┘
```

## API

The plugin includes a TypeScript client for MemoryRelay API:

```typescript
class MemoryRelayClient {
  async store(content: string, metadata?: Record<string, string>): Promise<Memory>
  async search(query: string, limit?: number, threshold?: number): Promise<SearchResult[]>
  async list(limit?: number, offset?: number): Promise<Memory[]>
  async get(id: string): Promise<Memory>
  async delete(id: string): Promise<void>
  async health(): Promise<{ status: string }>
}
```

## Examples

### Basic Usage

```javascript
// Agent conversation:
// User: "Remember that I prefer TypeScript over JavaScript"
// Agent uses: memory_store({ content: "User prefers TypeScript over JavaScript" })

// Later:
// User: "What language should we use?"
// Agent uses: memory_recall({ query: "programming language preference" })
// → Finds previous preference and suggests TypeScript
```

### CLI Workflow

```bash
# Store memory
openclaw memoryrelay store "Project uses Kubernetes on AWS EKS"

# Search later
openclaw memoryrelay search "kubernetes setup"
# → Returns relevant infrastructure memories

# List all
openclaw memoryrelay list --limit 20

# Delete old memory
openclaw memoryrelay forget --id abc123
```

## Troubleshooting

### Plugin Not Loading

```bash
# Check plugin status
openclaw plugins list | grep memoryrelay

# View config validation
openclaw doctor

# Check logs
journalctl -u openclaw-gateway -f
```

### Connection Failed

```bash
# Test API directly
curl https://api.memoryrelay.net/v1/health

# Check API key
openclaw memoryrelay status
```

### No Memories Returned

- Check `recallThreshold` (lower = more results)
- Verify `agentId` matches your API agent
- Try broader search queries

## Security

- API keys stored in `openclaw.json` (not committed to git)
- Supports environment variable substitution
- Auto-capture disabled by default (privacy)
- No hardcoded credentials

**Best Practices:**
- Use environment variables in production
- Never commit `openclaw.json` with real keys
- Rotate API keys regularly
- Review auto-captured memories periodically

## Development

### File Structure

```
openclaw-plugin/
├── index.ts                  # Plugin implementation
├── openclaw.plugin.json      # Plugin manifest
├── package.json              # NPM metadata
├── LICENSE                   # MIT license
└── README.md                 # This file
```

### Testing

```bash
# Install locally
openclaw plugins install --link .

# Test tools
# (via agent conversation or CLI)

# View logs
tail -f ~/.openclaw/logs/gateway.log
```

## Related Projects

- **MemoryRelay API** — REST API backend (FastAPI + PostgreSQL)
- **MCP Server** — [`memoryrelay-mcp-server`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/memoryrelay-mcp-server) for Claude Desktop
- **Python SDK** — `memoryrelay` on PyPI (coming soon)

## Contributing

Contributions welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests (if applicable)
4. Update documentation
5. Submit a pull request

## Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/memoryrelay/openclaw-plugin/issues)
- **Docs**: [memoryrelay.io](https://memoryrelay.io)
- **Discord**: [OpenClaw Community](https://discord.gg/clawd)

## License

MIT © 2026 MemoryRelay

---

## Changelog

### v0.2.2 (2026-02-13)

**Critical Fix:**
- Fixed tool registration API - changed `inputSchema` to `parameters`
- Fixed handler signature - changed `handler` to `execute` with `_id` parameter
- Tools now register correctly with OpenClaw
- Memory storage/recall/forget now functional
- Plugin shows as "available" instead of "unavailable"

### v0.2.1 (2026-02-13)

**Bug Fix:**
- Made `apiKey` and `agentId` optional in config schema
- Allows installation without pre-configuring credentials
- Plugin auto-detects agentId and supports MEMORYRELAY_API_KEY env var
- Fixes "must have required property" errors during installation

### v0.2.0 (2026-02-13) - BREAKING CHANGE

**Package Renamed to Fix Warnings:**
- Old: `@memoryrelay/openclaw-plugin`
- New: `@memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai`
- Plugin ID remains: `plugin-memoryrelay-ai`
- **Why**: Package name must match plugin ID to avoid config warnings
- **Impact**: No code changes, just package name alignment

**Migration**:
```bash
# Uninstall old package
openclaw plugins uninstall @memoryrelay/openclaw-plugin
# Install new package
openclaw plugins install @memoryrelay/plugin-memoryrelay-ai
```

### v0.1.2 (2026-02-13)

**Bug Fix:**
- Fixed installation directory mismatch by adding `openclaw.id` to package.json
- Plugin now correctly installs to `plugin-memoryrelay-ai` directory
- Resolves "plugin not found" error during `openclaw plugins install`

### v0.1.1 (2026-02-13)

**Breaking Changes:**
- Plugin ID changed: `memory-memoryrelay` → `plugin-memoryrelay-ai`
- Update your `openclaw.json` to use new ID in `plugins.slots.memory` and `plugins.entries`

**Documentation Improvements:**
- ✅ Added agent_id auto-injection documentation
- ✅ Added size limits (content 1-50K chars, metadata 10KB)
- ✅ Added rate limit info (30 req/min)
- ✅ Enhanced tool documentation with return formats
- ✅ Added response format examples for memory_recall

**Migration Guide:**
```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "slots": {
      "memory": "plugin-memoryrelay-ai"  // Changed
    },
    "entries": {
      "plugin-memoryrelay-ai": {  // Changed
        "enabled": true,
        "config": { ... }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### v0.1.0 (2026-02-12)

- Initial release
- Three tools: memory_store, memory_recall, memory_forget
- Auto-recall and auto-capture features
- CLI commands
- Production deployment on 3 agents

---

**Homepage**: https://memoryrelay.io  
**API**: https://api.memoryrelay.net  
**Source**: https://github.com/memoryrelay/openclaw-plugin
